# 13 句话创业

> 原文：<http://paulgraham.com/13sentences.html?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website>

 <font size="2" face="verdana">2009 年 2 月
我最近对一名记者说，如果我只能告诉创业公司 10 件事，这将是其中之一。然后我想:另外 9 个会是什么？

我列单子的时候那里竟然是 13:

**1\. Pick good cofounders.**

Cofounders are for a startup what location is for real estate. You can change anything about a house except where it is. In a startup you can change your idea easily, but changing your cofounders is hard. <font>[[<font>1</font>](#f1n)]</font> And the success of a startup is almost always a function of its founders.

**2\. Launch fast.**

The reason to launch fast is not so much that it's critical to get your product to market early, but that you haven't really started working on it till you've launched. Launching teaches you what you should have been building. Till you know that you're wasting your time. So the main value of whatever you launch with is as a pretext for engaging users.

**3\. Let your idea evolve.**

This is the second half of launching fast. Launch fast and iterate. It's a big mistake to treat a startup as if it were merely a matter of implementing some brilliant initial idea. As in an essay, most of the ideas appear in the implementing.

**4\. Understand your users.**

You can envision the wealth created by a startup as a rectangle, where one side is the number of users and the other is how much you improve their lives. <font>[[<font>2</font>](#f2n)]</font> The second dimension is the one you have most control over. And indeed, the growth in the first will be driven by how well you do in the second. As in science, the hard part is not answering questions but asking them: the hard part is seeing something new that users lack. The better you understand them the better the odds of doing that. That's why so many successful startups make something the founders needed.

**5\. Better to make a few users love you than a lot ambivalent.**

Ideally you want to make large numbers of users love you, but you can't expect to hit that right away. Initially you have to choose between satisfying all the needs of a subset of potential users, or satisfying a subset of the needs of all potential users. Take the first. It's easier to expand userwise than satisfactionwise. And perhaps more importantly, it's harder to lie to yourself. If you think you're 85% of the way to a great product, how do you know it's not 70%? Or 10%? Whereas it's easy to know how many users you have.

**6\. Offer surprisingly good customer service.**

Customers are used to being maltreated. Most of the companies they deal with are quasi-monopolies that get away with atrocious customer service. Your own ideas about what's possible have been unconsciously lowered by such experiences. Try making your customer service not merely good, but [surprisingly good](http://www.diaryofawebsite.com/blog/2008/07/wufoo-and-the-art-of-customer-service/). Go out of your way to make people happy. They'll be overwhelmed; you'll see. In the earliest stages of a startup, it pays to offer customer service on a level that wouldn't scale, because it's a way of learning about your users.

**7\. You make what you measure.**

I learned this one from Joe Kraus. <font>[[<font>3</font>](#f3n)]</font> Merely measuring something has an uncanny tendency to improve it. If you want to make your user numbers go up, put a big piece of paper on your wall and every day plot the number of users. You'll be delighted when it goes up and disappointed when it goes down. Pretty soon you'll start noticing what makes the number go up, and you'll start to do more of that. Corollary: be careful what you measure.

**8\. Spend little.**

I can't emphasize enough how important it is for a startup to be cheap. Most startups fail before they make something people want, and the most common form of failure is running out of money. So being cheap is (almost) interchangeable with iterating rapidly. <font>[[<font>4</font>](#f4n)]</font> But it's more than that. A culture of cheapness keeps companies young in something like the way exercise keeps people young.

**9\. Get ramen profitable.**

"Ramen profitable" means a startup makes just enough to pay the founders' living expenses. It's not rapid prototyping for business models (though it can be), but more a way of hacking the investment process. Once you cross over into ramen profitable, it completely changes your relationship with investors. It's also great for morale.

**10\. Avoid distractions.**

Nothing kills startups like distractions. The worst type are those that pay money: day jobs, consulting, profitable side-projects. The startup may have more long-term potential, but you'll always interrupt working on it to answer calls from people paying you now. Paradoxically, [fundraising](fundraising.html) is this type of distraction, so try to minimize that too.

**11\. Don't get demoralized.**

Though the immediate cause of death in a startup tends to be running out of money, the underlying cause is usually lack of focus. Either the company is run by stupid people (which can't be fixed with advice) or the people are smart but got demoralized. Starting a startup is a huge moral weight. Understand this and make a conscious effort not to be ground down by it, just as you'd be careful to bend at the knees when picking up a heavy box.

**12\. Don't give up.**

Even if you get demoralized, [don't give up](die.html). You can get surprisingly far by just not giving up. This isn't true in all fields. There are a lot of people who couldn't become good mathematicians no matter how long they persisted. But startups aren't like that. Sheer effort is usually enough, so long as you keep morphing your idea.

**13\. Deals fall through.**

One of the most useful skills we learned from Viaweb was not getting our hopes up. We probably had 20 deals of various types fall through. After the first 10 or so we learned to treat deals as background processes that we should ignore till they terminated. It's very dangerous to morale to start to depend on deals closing, not just because they so often don't, but because it makes them less likely to.

在总结成 13 句话后，我问自己，如果只能保留一句，我会选择哪一句。

了解你的用户。这是关键。创业公司的基本任务是创造财富；你最能掌控的财富维度，是你对用户生活的改善程度；最困难的部分是知道为他们做什么。一旦你知道要做什么，就很容易做到，大多数正派的黑客都有能力做到。

理解你的用户是这个列表中一半原则的一部分。这就是为什么要早点推出，去了解你的用户。进化你的想法是了解你的用户的体现。很好地理解你的用户会促使你去做一些让少数人非常开心的事情。拥有令人惊讶的好的客户服务的最重要的原因是它帮助你理解你的用户。理解你的用户甚至会确保你的士气，因为当你周围的一切都崩溃时，只有十个爱你的用户会让你坚持下去。

**备注**

【严格来说没有时光机是不可能的。

【】在实践中它更像一把破烂的梳子。

【】乔认为是惠普的创始人之一先说的，但不记得是哪个了。如果市场停滞不前，它们是可以互换的。既然他们没有，那么两倍的工作速度比两倍的时间要好。</font>