# 廉价干净的编码器上的软件

> 原文：<https://sites.google.com/site/unclebobconsultingllc/home/articles/software-on-the-cheap?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website>

## 便宜的软件

由<cite>鲍勃叔叔</cite> <abbr title="2010-02-01T16:17:00-06:00">发布于 2010 年 2 月 1 日星期一</abbr>

说到软件，你会得到你所支付的。

你有没有停下来想一行代码值多少钱？这应该很容易弄清楚。

在过去的 14 个月里，我在 FitNesse 写了大约 20KSLOC。当然那是兼职。我真正的工作是运行对象导师，咨询，教学，指导，写作，以及其他一大堆事情。编程大概占据了我 15%的时间。

另一方面，大多数程序员有许多其他事情要做。他们参加会议，然后参加更多的会议。当他们开完那些会，他们就去开会。然后还要去参加会议。哦，是的，然后是所有的摆弄时间会计工具，和可怕的源代码控制系统，表现得像一只蝾螈在冰冻的泥浆中爬行。

所以，也许 15%并不是一个坏比例。

一个典型的程序员的工资(工资加其他一切)大约是 20 万美元。(我知道听起来很多，但是你可以查一下。)所以 200K 美元/(20k sloc/14mo * 12mo)= 11.66 美元/SLOC。

让我们来看看其中的一行:`StringBuffer nameBuffer = new StringBuffer();`你看这像是 11.66 美元吗？你愿意为此付那么多钱吗？好吧，先不要回答，因为你每买一根`StringBuffer`线，你就可以得到绝对免费的`import java.lang.StringBuffer;`！

一些工厂付给员工“计件工资”。你会接受每行代码 11.66 美元而不是薪水吗？当然，它不可能只是任何一行旧代码。它必须被测试！

嘿，我打赌如果我们付给他们计件工资，所有的程序员都会做 TDD。

## 正事。

那个愚蠢的分析的目的是证明软件是昂贵的。即使是最笨的小应用程序也可能需要 1000 多行代码；这意味着编写它可能要花费 12K 美元！

想象一下，你不是一个程序员，但是你有一个聪明的新网站的想法，可以让你赚到亿万美元。你已经把一切都讲清楚了。你已经解决了所有的细节。现在你所需要的就是某个高中生帮你读出密码。对吗？见鬼，你可以付给他最低工资！小笨蛋会很高兴得到它的！

那部悲剧喜剧太普通了。太多的人用他们父亲的退休账户借钱来资助一个好主意的糟糕实施。震惊于声誉好的公司每小时收取的费用(100 美元或更多)，他们去寻找一个便宜的解决方案。

“毕竟这个软件*简单*”或者说推理是这样的。“这并不像我们试图向月球发射火箭或其他什么东西。此外，那些昂贵的家伙只是为了欺骗我们。软件并没有那么难写。”嗯哼。

所以这个可怜的笨蛋找到了某个大学新生，或者可能是一个无聊的家庭主妇，她去年在 HTML 上读了一本书，并创建了一个可爱的网站来展示她的小猫。这些程序员听说过 TDD 吗？他们听说过设计模式吗？原则？源代码控制怎么样？

显然他们没有。他们将把一堆可怕的代码放在一起，没有任何测试、版本控制或控制。该项目将有一个良好的开端，并取得令人振奋的初步成果。但随后它会慢慢停止，而现金会继续源源不断地流出。

最终，网站不会建成(这个可怜的笨蛋的父亲也不会像他想的那么快退休)。这将是一场灾难，要么被终止，要么需要两倍或三倍的投资才能恢复正常。

## 底线。

底线是，当涉及到软件时，你得到你所支付的。如果你想把好的软件做好，那么你就要为此付费，这可能会花费你 12 美元/行或更多。相信我，这是完成软件的最便宜的方式。

如果你出去寻找便宜的解决方案，那么你最终会付出更多，并失去时间。软件是那种写得好要花一大笔钱，写得差要花两倍的钱的东西。如果你买便宜的，你要付双倍的钱；甚至可能是三倍。

##### 评论

1.  <cite>Philip Schwarz</cite> <abbr title="2010-02-01T16:58:00-06:00">41 minutes later:</abbr>

    I wonder if we will see software developers provide their services on a "no win, no charge" basis.

2.  Then when you have your own website and start running, it starts to "work" and "make money". The cost of doing a "proper job" is always out of reach …

3.  It's not as simple as "you get what you give". An expensive consultant is probably a worse programmer than a cheap college student (in the sense of writing maintainable and timely delivered code). Consultants may be, or even better, but you can't be sure you haven't checked them further. When choosing a consultant, are you sure that $200 is twice as good as $100?

5.  "... so this poor fool has found a college freshman ..."

    I think I once heard such a story ... This company is called 37signals, and their college freshman is a guy whose alias is DHH.

    They outsourced the crappy framework they used, but I don't think anyone cares about it …

6.  Sorry. I tried to explain that they "open source" this framework.

    Obviously I was being sarcastic.

7.  <cite>Philip Schwarz</cite> <abbr title="2010-02-01T17:43:37-06:00">About 1 hour later:</abbr>

    Hi, Uncle Bob,

    @ dspinellis recently wrote on Twitter: Dynamic language makes you program five times faster, but it also makes you messy. Author @ unclebobmartin # OOP2010

    Would you rather spend $12 for one line of Groovy/Ruby or five lines of Java/C#?

8.  <cite>Marcelo Lopez</cite> <abbr title="2010-02-01T17:46:35-06:00">About 2 hours later:</abbr>

    I hear you, Martin, but it doesn't always fly. Of course, you have to "trust but verify", but then again, enough businesses don't do this and choose the "path of least resistance", which means the path with the lowest cost for most businesses. This creates a value impedance in the industry. In the long run, it will completely destroy profitability.

    I don't believe that a $200 consultant is much better than a $100 consultant. However, even the $100 consultants have competition from various places (I don't have to go into it, I believe we all have very good ideas and know where these places might be).

9.  Philip, what criteria do you suggest we use to determine whether the software … *won* ?

10.  <cite>Andras Hatvani</cite> <abbr title="2010-02-02T01:40:32-06:00">About 9 hours later:</abbr>

    An interesting example of a serious problem-I hope many decision makers understand this!

11.  I agree with what you said. The code is very expensive. However, in start-ups, one thing is more important than clean code, and that is to actually start your project and actually create software. Sometimes, you just want to tape a part of S ***** together and then deploy it. Especially if you choose to do nothing. Paralysis or something like that.

    In the long run, clean code always wins. There is no argument.

12.  <cite>Marty</cite> <abbr title="2010-02-02T09:42:33-06:00">About 17 hours later:</abbr>

    Damn it, where do you work?

    The annual salary is $200,000 … I want that job … I need that job

    (Yes, I know it's not the last payment at the end of the month … but I'm still jealous

    :-)

13.  <cite>[Jorge](http://www.miamicoder.com/)</cite> <abbr title="2010-02-02T10:17:56-06:00">About 18 hours later:</abbr>

    Great post. By the way, this also applies to your insiders. As experienced practitioners have proved time and time again, you need to find really good people (not necessarily related to age) and provide them with a good working environment.

14.  <cite>Giorgio Sironi</cite> <abbr title="2010-02-02T11:07:11-06:00">About 19 hours later:</abbr>

    @ Marty: I think $200,000 refers to the total cost (insurance, company retirement matching, benefits) of a programmer, not the actual salary. Rails is really a crappy framework, and it is a massive use of ActiveRecord and metaprogramming. The problem with expensive concepts is that most people have high rates not because of high quality, but to maintain their business and lifestyle …

15.  <cite>Cedric</cite> <abbr title="2010-02-02T12:51:00-06:00">About 21 hours later:</abbr>

    "When it comes to software, you will get what you pay for." It seems to imply that free (such as "free beer") software is completely worthless.

    This looks like an exaggerated simplification.

16.  @ Cedric: "Linux is free only if your time is worthless"-JWZ

    This is also an exaggerated simplification, but what is a blog for?

17.  Well, our school paid 10,000 euros for their website. Even as a "cheap student", I can say it's nonsense. That is to say, it was outsourced to India. I'm sure many students (including myself) will do better if they can get 10% salary.

    In most cases, what you said may be right, but my point is that there are also many suspicious companies that take advantage of unsuspecting people and charge them a price far higher than the quality they finally get.

    Besides, when you compare private/community projects with their commercial projects, private projects are usually better, simply because their developers are more enthusiastic about their projects.

18.  Well said! This is also one of the reasons why I heard that companies are reluctant to spend money to let their developers have dual monitors and the fastest computers and tools. I just can't understand it.

    If each line of code costs $12, you can buy a tool that makes developers even 10% faster

19.  I partly agree, and partly disagree.

    Yes, it's cheaper to find some college graduates to finish this job. Part of the reason for the low price is the mistake of the industry: there is no professional organization capable of supervising the industry. No institution equivalent to a medical committee or a bar association can say, "Yes, this person has completed relevant training and internship and has been assessed as qualified".

    As far as the return on investment is concerned, I disagree. For me, it has something to do with technical debt. Take the expedient route to earn some money, and then use the money to finance debt repayment (whether the debt is financial or technical). I admit that this does imply a certain degree of ability of developers, but only in terms of getting something.

    I also know that as a person with a master's degree in engineering and an idealist, I tend to over-design any solution, so I am not the best person to come up with new ideas. This is where the principle of taking things out of the door/delivering them as early as possible usually provides a lot of value.

20.  <cite>Jan Daniel Andersen</cite>   <abbr title="2010-02-03T02:46:49-06:00">1 day later:</abbr>

    @BjartN。 If "duck-tape with a piece of s*" is based on a fully informed decision (i.e. Knowing that at some point you will need to scrap it all and start from scratch), it may be a good idea to reduce the focus on quality and clean code. But I haven't seen an example yet. This decision didn't backfire later. Nothing lasts longer than a temporary fix/crack. These things will eventually become the basis of other and newer things. This is the beginning of hell.

    I'm pretty sure Uncle Bob doesn't advocate BDUF, so his idea may never lead to paralysis of analysis.

    I got the impression that you mean that relaxing the quality will actually make you run faster. My experience is just the opposite. Even for smaller projects. "All" it needs is people who are good at doing high-quality work. These people are often more expensive than those who "know a little script" in general. However, based on real life experience, I totally agree with Bob that high quality is the cheaper option.

21.  <cite>Jan Daniel Andersen</cite> <abbr title="2010-02-03T02:54:31-06:00">1 day later:</abbr>

    @ Joshua Lewis Good quality is largely about not over-designing. Accurately delivering what customers need (not what you or he think is fancy) is definitely within the quality concept of agile methods.

22.  High school students and html housewives are good examples, but (at least on my site), I see the same result from people who take programming as their profession. There are some computer-related degrees. As you described, the result is the same. In Austin, the startup culture began to cultivate it from venture capitalists. Good idea, go, go! We'll stuff pizza under the door!

    Of course, they tried to go fast but not smoothly, and the result was just as you described.

    By the way, my first vice president position was a startup company in 2006\. I joined in and had weekly iterations and lots of tests (at that time, too), and we went very fast (because we also went well).

23.  You confused me at the boring housewife's place. Please growl less and think more. Thanks.

24.  @ unclebob Very interesting post! I hope the product owner can understand your point of view …

    @ Joshua Technical debt is an ugly beast. Remember that it often accumulates at a very fast rate. How much are you willing to invest before you decide it's time to cancel this project? Keeping a small technical debt doesn't necessarily mean BDUF (after all, we're talking about the simplest things that might work), so I think we should always try to keep our code clean, not just because it's more elegant, but because it's cheaper (cheaper means cheaper, not lower quality). Much cheaper.

    @ GiantisPod Obviously, I haven't seen this website, but don't be too quick to say that you will do better, at 10% of the cost. How long do you think it will take to make a similar website? Okay, double the number. If you are inexperienced (no offense, just as an example), double it again. Say it again (you've already read the post). In the end, you will find that your hourly work efficiency is surprisingly low … Hey, I've done it myself. Fortunately, a long time ago (in a distant galaxy)

25.  <cite>Derek Smyth</cite> <abbr title="2010-02-04T12:14:29-06:00">3 days later:</abbr>

    Pay tribute to Uncle Bob! ! I'm not alone!

    I saw the number of times this happened. Dynamic language is great, which is very suitable for this kind of anti-development (? ) practice.

    "Hey, the coding is very simple; Come and see, everyone; Look how simple it is. Why does it work a little, if you just give it a little … oh wait, it just worked … where's Derek?

    500 lines of pasta that could have been written as 100 lines.

    Of course, static languages are the same, but it takes a little learning to master them and IDE first. This collision is enough to make some people flinch.

    You are definitely worth the money.

26.  I think a big part of the problem why software is expensive (except bad requirements, bad management, ...) is that we still write too much code. Yes, there are libraries, frameworks, ... but we write the same code over and over again.

    We know how to deal with this code, but we forgot to set an attribute here. Google to find out why javascript functions can't work, build, execute and start over … Also, how many products, clients, ... tables exist in all databases? We are still creating new ones for each project.

    When we start building software and only write application-specific code (if necessary), and stop wasting time writing the same stupid code over and over again, the cost of software will drop. Writing code will be reserved for difficult, unique and interesting problems.

27.  <cite>Jan Daniel Andersen</cite>   <abbr title="2010-02-05T06:09:37-06:00">4 days later:</abbr>

    @devMomentum。 If you mean the actual typing of the code, I totally disagree with you. For a skilled practitioner, the time spent actually entering the code should be much less than the time spent thinking about how to write the code (when writing the code, there is no BDUF here! ).

    This is why programming in pairs is not a bad idea. As a result of synergy, you sacrifice some typing time (a shorter time period) while gaining some "thinking time" (a longer time period).

    There are many libraries that can solve common and well-known problems. The code we write ourselves should be the code that we can't get from other places, or the code that has clear and measurable value (customer value of course) when writing the code.

28.  @ Jane Daniel Andersen. I don't mean the time we actually input the code, I mean the time we spend thinking, designing, coding, fixing errors, searching for help, ... for the problems that have been solved, so we shouldn't ask for coding.

    Yes, there are many libraries, but we are far from the kind of reuse that we should have been able to achieve after writing all the codes.

29.  <cite>Jan Daniel Andersen</cite>   <abbr title="2010-02-08T05:09:21-06:00">7 days later:</abbr>

    @devMomentum。 Maybe we can reuse it more than now, but I guess it's not feasible because it hasn't been finished yet.

    There is always a price to pay for using third-party components. Now it seems that the price is too high. When acquiring a smarter programming language (higher level), it may become easier, and we will see that the reuse rate will rise.

30.  Interesting article-I especially like the meeting mentioned in the introduction-comes from the company where I worked, which is true. We used to meet to arrange the next meeting! From my experience, even many people who work in companies with software components (though not specialized software companies) don't have a real concept of cost (or value? ) the software they are going to write. Then, they will be surprised at the time it takes to do it well. I agree, you get what you are willing to pay for.

31.  Why did your blog appear behind Uncle Bob's warehouse? Are you not as popular as a storage website. Something's wrong.

32.  There is no doubt that in the field of software, like many areas in life, you will indeed get what you pay for. I also agree with some early comments that it is difficult for people in the software industry to understand this, let alone those outside the industry. This is especially true for the middle managers of software companies, who have lost their understanding of what software development actually involves.

33.  [...] Recently, Uncle Bob mentioned the time wasted by developers in "fiddling with time accounting tools". That's true. In my 11-year professional software development career, I have had the opportunity to witness different methods used by companies. [...] [Actively automate at least time accounting](http://blog.code-cop.org/2010/03/horror-of-time-accounting.html) (but of course it won't solve all problems).