# 早期启动并保持活力的重要性-大卫·鲁森科

> 原文:[http://www . David . blog/blog/the-importance of-launch-early-and-stay-alive？UTM _ source = Wanqu . co&UTM _ campaign = Wanqu+Daily&UTM _ medium = website](http://www.david.blog/blog/the-importance-of-launching-early-and-staying-alive?utm_source=wanqu.co&utm_campaign=Wanqu+Daily&utm_medium=website)

I started to work in Weebly in February 2006\. I worked with Dan for about a year. Later, with the help of Chris, we released a (very) early version of Weebly in mid-November, 2006\. A few days later, we were admitted to TechCrunch, and we were admitted to Y Combinator on the same day. (On the morning of our interview with YC, we woke up and found that we were on TechCrunch. Since then, Weebly has been developing, undergoing two complete visual redesigns, adding many functions, and even completely different from the products we launched.

These are our two charts from May 8th, 2007-five months after we moved to San Francisco, we have been making this product full-time:

The first one is the chart of our new registered users every day, and the second one is the chart of our total number of users every day. I marked the events that caused the main peak in the chart above. There are actually two very interesting things to note about the above chart: First, we have finished our angel wheel at this point-looking back, our investors have placed great confidence in us.

Secondly, it seems that the number of new users per day may actually be a little lower than that of . At this time, I have been working on Weebly for about one and a half years, and we have been publishing it for more than six months. Judging from the chart, you may think that things don't look spectacular. This is the situation where people give up. I've seen a lot of this in startups-they spend more time developing products than running them after their release. Some companies follow the same pattern: build, build, build, start and exit. But you have to persevere to get motivated. This is usually not done overnight, it takes time. Keep building your products, and eventually you will gain motivation and have a large number of people who know you and tell others about you.

Now, here are the charts from a few weeks ago: 

These charts look much better. There are two things I want to point out:

- First . The mentality of "Build it and they will come" is a fallacy. In order to succeed, you need to create great things and have distribution channels. And distribution is hard to come by.

There are many ways to get distribution. One of them is through the media. If you have a great product, the more people find you, the more people will know about you. They will tell their friends, who will tell their friends, and so on. Another subtle benefit: You can get links from a bunch of highly respected websites, which helps you rank in search engines, thus increasing traffic. There are many other good ways to get traffic, such as viral growth projects, but the media can bring huge benefits to the right products.

- Second , in order for people to use your products, you have to live. It sounds obvious, but many people spend 6 months developing a product, releasing it, and then giving up within 3 weeks. To put it simply, it takes time for people to start using your product-although there are exceptions, it is usually not the norm. So you need to look forward to it and be willing to give it time. If you give up within a month or two, your product will definitely not succeed.

Once you start, people start to know about you. If you start early, you can start the process of acquiring users earlier. Don't launch a crappy product-once your product is better than the one on the market, launch it as soon as possible. But don't wait for a perfect product-release it as early as possible, get user feedback, and keep improving the product.